WELCOME TO THE
NOVEMBER 14TH REGULAR MEETING
OF THE ECONOMIC PLANNING
COMMISSION FOR DETAILED
INFORMATION ON MEETING
PROCEDURES, PLEASE REVIEW THE
FULL PRINTED MEETING AGENDA
PROVIDED MICHELI FOR YOU.
PLEASE CALL THE ROLL.
CHARLIE I'M HERE BEISER ABRAM'S
NOTING THAT SECRETARY RICE WILL
BE COMING TO THE MEETING LATER
IN THE AGENDA.
COMMISSIONER MILLS' HERE MR.
HAMMERSCHMIDT HERE COUNCIL
MEMBER DISH HERE.
COMMISSIONER SAUVé HERE NOTING
THAT COMMISSIONER CLARK WILL BE
ABSENT THIS EVENING.
COMMISSIONER WEATHERBEE HERE
YOU HAVE A QUORUM.
THANK YOU.
MOVING ON TO AGENDA NUMBER
THREE, MAY I HAVE A MOTION TO
APPROVE THE AGENDA MOTION BY
COUNCIL MEMBER DESCH AND
SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER MILLS'
ALL THOSE IN FAVOR OF THE
MOTION PLEASE SAY I MOTION
CARRIES GOING TO SECTION FOUR
MINUTES OF THE PREVIOUS
MEETING.
MAY I HAVE A MOTION TO APPROVE
THE MINUTES OF NOVEMBER FIRST
TWENTY TWENTY THREE MOVED BY
COMMISSIONER MILLS AND COUNCIL
MEMBER DESH.
I WANT TO NOTE THAT WE GOT A
NOTE FROM VARNUM WITH RESPECT
TO AMENDING SOME OF THE
CLARIFICATIONS.
WHAT DO WE HAVE TO DO IN ORDER
TO MAKE THAT HAPPEN?
THINK THE MINUTES SO WE DID THE
THE COMMUNICATION INDICATED
THAT MAKES A REFERENCE AT A
PROPERTY OWNER REQUESTED TO BE
INCLUDED.
I THINK WE DID CORRECT THAT ON
THE RECORD LATER IN THE
MEETING.
SO I DON'T FEEL LIKE THAT NEEDS
TO BE ADDRESSED.
THAT COMMUNICATION IS SHARED
JUST FOR YOUR REFERENCE.
PERFECT.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
ALL RIGHT.
I WILL PUT IT TO A VOTE THEN
ALL THOSE IN FAVOR OF THE
MOTION PLEASE SAY AY AY AY AND
YOU OPPOSE NOT SEEING ANYONE
THE MOTION CARRIES.
NEXT UP OUR REPORTS THE
PLANNING COMMISSION AND WRITTEN
COMMUNICATIONS.
WE CAN START WITH COUNCIL
MEMBER DESH.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH CHATTERLEY
CITY COUNCIL IS VERY BUSY WITH
PLANNING COMMISSION BUSINESS
LAST MEETING AND SEVERAL THINGS
PASSED FIRST READING THE
SETBACK ADJUSTMENTS TO THE
LOCKWOOD PD AND THE BRIARWOOD
ZONING BOTH PASSED FIRST
READING THE ELIMINATION
OF DOWNTOWN PREMIUM'S ALSO
PASSED FIRST READING AND THE
REVISION OF TUQAY ONE SETBACKS
ALSO PASSED FIRST READING
MISKELLY FOR MR. LEONARD NO
MANAGER PARTHASARATHI OH GREAT
THANK YOU.
DO OTHER COMMISSIONER OFFICERS
ARE COMMITTEE LIAISON'S HAVE
ANYTHING TO REPORT IF NOTHING
ELSE WRITTEN COMMUNICATIONS ARE
INCLUDED TODAY IN TODAY'S
PACKAGE WE WILL MOVE ON TO
PUBLIC COMMENT.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR A
PERSON TO SPEAK UP TO THREE
MINUTES ABOUT AN ISSUE THAT IS
NOT LISTED AS A PUBLIC HEARING
ON THIS AGENDA.
WE WILL FIRST CALL AN
INDIVIDUALS PRESENT TO ADDRESS
THE COMMISSION, THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK DURING
THIS PUBLIC HEARING REMOTELY
PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE
INFLIXIMAB PHONE OR USE THE
HAND RAISED HAND FEATURE IF
YOUR VIEWING THROUGH THE
WEBLINK FOR PHONE ACCESS PLEASE
CALL EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT
FIVE THREE FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN
ENTER MEETING EIGHTY NINE SEVEN
SEVEN SIX SIX THREE FOUR ONE
TWO TWO SIX CITY STAFF WILL
SELECT CALLERS HAVE RAISED
THEIR HAND USING THE LAST THREE
DIGITS OF THEIR PHONE NUMBER OR
BY NAME IF AVAILABLE YOU'LL
HEAR AN AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT
THAT THE HOST IS ALLOWING TO
SPEAK AND WHEN SPEAKING PLEASE
MOVE TO A QUIET AREA MUTE ANY
BACKGROUND NOISE SO THAT WE CAN
HEAR YOU CLEARLY FOR EITHER
METHOD OF PARTICIPATION.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING OF THE
COMMENTS.
IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT I WOULD
LIKE TO SPEAK SEEING NO ONE
WE'RE GOING TO MOVE ON TO
REMOTELY.
IS THERE ANYONE THAT WOULD LIKE
TO ADDRESS THE COMMISSION
REMOTELY?
THERE ARE NO HANDS RAISED, MR.
CHAIR, GIVE A FIVE TEN MORE
SECONDS JUST TO MAKE SURE AND
WELCOME TO EVERYBODY ELSE IN
THE AUDIENCE.
ALL RIGHT.
I WANT THAT I WANT OF COURSE
ALL THE TIME MY HAND WAS JUST
RAISED SO THAT
IS PHONE NUMBER
ENDING IN FIVE THREE FOUR.
YOU HAVE PERMISSION TO ADDRESS
PLANNING COMMISSION FOR THREE
MINUTES.
CALL IN AN HOUR.
I'D LIKE YOU TO BRING IN THESE
PEOPLE LINE AND THEN IT IS
PLANNING ACTIVITY OR CITY SUCH
AS IN A RIVER VALLEY HERE IN
MICHIGAN WHERE THE IMPACT
OF CLIMATE CHANGE WOULD BE A
FREQUENCY AND INCREASE SEVERITY
OF THAT NATURAL RESOURCES TO
RESPECT THE VALUE OF OUR LOCAL
ECOLOGY PROVIDED TO IT.
WE RESPECT IT AND
I DID NOT
APPLY TO THE PLANT THEORY
COMMITTEE AND I THOUGHT I'D
TELL THE ADMINISTRATION THAT
SIGNAL POLICY THAT WOULD BE
FINANCIALLY BENEFICIAL TO ME
AND OTHERS LIKE IT ME BE THE
OUTCOME OF THIS PROCESS.
I WOULD NOT HAVE WANTED TO HAVE
EVEN THE APPEARANCE THAT
SOMEHOW IN A MANNER IN THE
MEETING AND ELECT THE ELECTION
WILL GET PEOPLE ELECTED WHO ARE
QUALIFIED WHO HAD A LOT
PREVIOUSLY AND MADE JUST LIKE
MAKE THEIR VOICES.
NOW COME YOU MAY NOT HAVE
SPOKEN AT ALL SEVEN YEARS AND I
SEE WHAT I CAN TAKING UNDER
THAT CRITERIA I'D LIKE TO APPLY
A LITTLE BIT MORE EVENLY.
ONE IN PARTICULAR THE PUBLIC IS
A LOT OF THEM OVER AND OVER THE
PAST YEAR RIGHT ON THAT FLOOR
SHOW YOU ADAM THAT ADAM
ABDULEMAM AND DIFFICULT THE
WRITER OF THAT BLOG AND YOU
HAVE OFTEN HEARD QUITE A BIT
AND WE'RE ALL LIKELY TO BE
QUITE A BIT GOING FORWARD.
WE'RE TALKING OVER YEARS IN THE
PAST TO ME AND REGARDLESS
OF WHAT OUR PERSONAL BELIEFS
ARE, WHAT DIRECTION THINGS
SHOULD GO, I IF YOU WANT TO
HAVE ANY OF THE CRITERIA THAT
YOU'VE LAID OUT IN APPLYING FOR
A SELECTION COMMITTEE, I THINK
IT SHOULD BE APPLIED A LITTLE
BIT MORE EVENLY.
I SUGGEST YOU REMOVE THE NAME
FROM YOUR LIST.
THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER CALLERS?
THERE ARE NO OTHER ANSWERS.
THANK YOU.
WE'RE GOING TO MOVE ON TO
AGENDA ITEM NUMBER SEVEN PUBLIC
HEARINGS SCHEDULED FOR THE NEXT
BUSINESS MEETING.
WITH THAT I'LL TURN IT OVER TO
STAFF.
A PUBLIC HEARING ON THE
FOLLOWING ITEMS WILL BE HELD BY
THE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION ON
TUESDAY, DECEMBER 5TH.
TWENTY TWENTY THREE AT SEVEN
P.M. FIRST DAY PUBLIC CARRYING
OUT AMENDMENTS TO CHAPTER FIFTY
FIVE OF THE UNIFIED VOLUNTARY
CODE SECTION FIVE POINT TO
EIGHT AND FIVE POINT TO NINE
POINT SIX RELATED TO
TRANSPORTATION IMPACT ANALYSIS
REQUIREMENTS AND REVIEW
CRITERIA INVOLVING AMENDMENTS
TO SECTION FIVE POINT TO EIGHT
POINT EIGHT REQUIRED PLAN
INFORMATION PARAGRAPH E
TRANSPORTATION IMPACT ANALYSIS
AND PROPOSE TO UPDATE
REFERENCES FROM THE 2010
INSTITUTE OF TRANSPORTATION
ENGINEERS TRANSPORTATION IMPACT
ANALYSIS FOR SITE DEVELOPMENT
TO THE TWENTY TWENTY THREE
INSTITUTE FOR TRANSPORT
ENGINEERS MULTIMODAL
TRANSPORTATION IMPACT ANALYSIS
FOR SITE DEVELOPMENT.
ELIMINATE LISTED INDIVIDUAL
COMPONENTS OF THE ANALYSIS TO
AVOID INCONSISTENCY AND
REDUNDANCY AND PROVIDE SEPARATE
REQUIREMENTS FOR AREA PLANS AND
AMENDMENTS ARE PROPOSED TO
SECTION FIVE POINT TO NINE
POINT SIX SITE PLANS PARAGRAPH
E CRITERIA FOR REVIEW OF THE
TRAFFIC IMPACT ANALYSIS TO
UPDATE REFERENCES TO INCLUDE
TRAFFIC AND OR PARKING IMPACT
ANALYSIS TO MULTIMODAL
TRANSPORTATION IMPACT ANALYSIS
AND STREATOR TRAFFIC
IMPROVEMENTS TO TRANSPORTATION
IMPROVEMENTS.
THE SECOND WILL BE ONE THOUSAND
ONE CORNWALL PLACE A PROPOSAL
TO VACATE CORNWALL PLACE A ONE
BLOCK STREET EXTENDING EAST
FROM NORTH ANGLE STREET
PROPERTIES ABUTTING ARE OWNED
BY THE APPLICANT.
THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN.
THANK YOU.
MOVING ON TO AGENDA NUMBER
EIGHT WE DO NOT HAVE ANY UNFAIR
UNFINISHED BUSINESS WHICH TAKE
US TO AGENDA NUMBER NINE, A
REGULAR BUSINESS WE ARE HEARING
THREE HUNDRED TO THREE TWELVE
EASTERN HOTEL SITE PLAN FOR
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
APPROVAL, A SIX STORY HOTEL
BUILDING PROVIDING ONE HUNDRED
THIRTY NINE ROOMS WITH NINE
SURFACE PARKING AREAS ACCESS
FROM THE SOUTH FIFTH AVENUE THE
SITE SIZE IS NINETEEN THOUSAND
FIVE HUNDRED NINETY SEVEN
SQUARE FEET.
THE ZONING ASSOCIATION IS D ONE
MIDTOWN CHARACTER LAY OVERLAY
SECONDARY STREET FRONTAGE
DESIGNATION THE STAFF
RECOMMENDATION IS APPROVAL WITH
CONDITIONS AND WE WILL MOVE ON
TO PETITIONER PRESENTATION.
MR. CULVER, GOOD EVENING BY THE
COMMISSION.
THANK YOU FOR THE OPPORTUNITY
TO REVIEW WITH OUR PROJECT.
I HOPE EVERYBODY'S HAD A GREAT
DAY.
MY NAME'S TOM COLVARD.
I'M WITH MIDWESTERN CONSULTING.
I'M HERE TONIGHT TO DISCUSS THE
AKOTO BY MARRIOTT WITHOU.
WITH ME TONIGHT IS ALSO THE
OWNER DEVELOPER MIKE MARTIN AND
THE MEMBERS OF THE
ARCHITECTURAL TEAM CHRIS AND
NICK.
THE PROJECT IS A SMALL SITE
WHICH IS ABOUT FOUR FIVE ACRES
IN SIZE OR A LITTLE OVER
NINETEEN THOUSAND SQUARE FEET.
IT'S LOCATED AT THE SOUTHEAST
CORNER OF HERE ON ITS FIFTH
AVE. SOUTH OF CITY HALL HERE.
IT'S EAST OF THE CITY CENTER
BUILDING.
IT'S NORTH OF THE BANK OF ANN
ARBOR AND IS AT THE AT&T
BUILDING IS TO OUR EAST ZOOMING
INTO THE SITE A LITTLE BIT
YOU'LL SEE OUR PROJECT AREA IS
A BIT LESS THAN A QUARTER
OF THE BLOCK BOUND BY HERE ON
SOUTH EAST WASHINGTON AND SOUTH
DIVISION.
THE SITE IS CURRENTLY A PAVED
PARKING LOT.
THE PROJECT WILL BE ADDING TO
THE CENSUS IN THE DOWNTOWN AREA
OR ADDING PEOPLE TO THE
EQUATION FOR THE VIBRANCY
OF THIS AREA WE'RE ACTIVATING
THE AREA WITH THIS HOTEL TO A
TWENTY FOUR SEVEN USE.
IT'S GOING TO BE ADDING
VITALITY TO THIS AREA WHICH CAN
LARGELY BE SEEN AS OFFICE AND
BUSINESS.
OUR USERS.
SO WITH THAT WE'RE ADDING TO
THAT UNDERUTILIZED PROPERTY BY
BRINGING THE VIBRANCY OF THOSE
TWENTY FOUR SEVEN USE AS YOU
CAN SEE ON THE ZONING MAP HERE
WE ARE CURRENTLY ZONED THE
PROPERTY IS CURRENTLY ZONED D
ONE DOWNTOWN CORE SURROUNDED BY
THE SAME WITH SOME PUBLIC LANDS
THAT ENCOMPASS A CITY HALL AND
FIRE STATION A BIT ABOUT THE
PROJECT.
THE PROJECT IS A SIX STOREY
BUILDING WITH ONE HUNDRED AND
THIRTY NINE GUEST ROOMS.
THE SIZE OF THE BUILDING IS
ABOUT SEVENTY SEVEN THOUSAND
SQUARE FEET.
IT'LL HAVE MEETING ROOMS, BAR
AND LOUNGE AS WELL AS A FITNESS
CENTER.
THE PROJECT HAS A CORNER
PRESENCE WITH PEDESTRIAN SPACE
ALONG HERE ON AND 5TH THAT
WE'VE COORDINATED THROUGH WITH
THE DENHA.
THE SITE IS ACCESSED FROM S
FIFTH AVE. SO THE FRONT DOORS
OF THE BUILDING WILL FACE OFF
HAVE AS WELL AS THE ACCESS TO
THE PARKING LOT THAT SITS ON
SITE THE PARKING LOT ON SITE
HAS A SMALL ROUND ABOUT AREA
TURN ABOUT AREA CARS CAN PULL
UP TO A DROP OFF AREA IN FRONT
OF A DOOR THAT SITS ON THAT
FACE OF THE BUILDING.
AN ENTRANCE THERE THERE ARE
NINE INTERNAL ONSITE PARKING
SPACES WITH CHARGING THIS IS A
NON AUTO CENTRIC HOSPITALITY
USE.
WE'RE ADDING EMPLOYMENT
OPPORTUNITIES AGAIN THE TWENTY
FOUR SEVEN VITALITY AND WE'RE
GOING TO BE UTILIZING SITTING
PARKING SPACES WHICH IS A
LITTLE BIT OF AN EVOLUTION
OF THAT USE SINCE SOME OF THE
OFFICE USERS THAT WOULDN'T
NORMALLY PARK IN THOSE
STRUCTURES ARE WORKING
REMOTELY.
SO WE'RE REPLACING THAT WITH
THIS HOSPITALITY FROM A UTILITY
PERSPECTIVE IT'S A PRETTY
SIMPLE SITE WATER AND SANITARY
NEEDS WILL BE EXTENDED TO THE
SITE FROM HERE ON STREET.
WE'RE ALSO EXTENDING OUR WATER
MAIN ACROSS HERE ON THE STREET
TO ADD A HYDRANT TOWARDS THE
CORNER OF THE HERE ON A FIFTH
PROVIDING FOR ADDITIONAL FIRE
PROTECTION COVERAGE.
STORMWATER WILL BE BELOW GRADE
ON THE KIND THE BROWN SQUARE IN
THE PARKING LOT AREA IT WILL BE
BELOW GRADE, IT'LL BE IN
INFILTRATING SYSTEM AND IT'LL
HAVE A EMERGENCY OUTFALL FLOW
ONLY.
SO WE PLAN TO B INFILTRATING
ALL OF OUR STORMS THAT WAY AND
IF IT NEEDED TO OUTFALL TO
CONNECTION TO THE STORM SYSTEM
IN SOUTH ST. I'M ONE OF THE
THINGS THAT ARE ALSO MENTIONED
HERE BECAUSE I KNOW IT'S YOUR
REPORT ABOUT SOLID WASTE.
SOLID WASTE WILL BE STORED
INTERNAL TO THE BUILDING KIND
OF ON THE EASTERN END NORTH
OF THE TREE THAT YOU SEE IN THE
IMAGE HERE WE PLAN TO IMPLEMENT
A LICENSE AGREEMENT WITH THE
NEIGHBORS TO THE SOUTH SO THE
BANK OF ANN ARBOR HAS A SOLID
WASTE ENCLOSURE AND THEIR
PARKING FIELD SOLID WASTE BE
COLLECTED IN TURN ONCE STORED
IN OUR BUILDING IT WOULD BE
STAGED OUTSIDE, ROLLED AROUND
TO THE ENCLOSURE AND SOLID
WASTE AREA ON THE BANK OF ANN
ARBOR PROPERTY WHERE IT WOULD
BE STORED FOR COLLECTION JUST
AS IT EXISTS TODAY FOR THE BANK
PROPERTY.
OUR BACKUP PLAN FOR THAT IS
THAT IF THAT LICENSE AGREEMENT
FOR WHATEVER REASON BECAME NULL
AND VOID THEN OUR BACKUP PLAN
WILL BE THAT THE OWNER AND
OPERATOR WOULD BE CONTRACTING
WITH A SOLID WASTE PROVIDER TO
REMOVE OUR SOLID WASTE, TAKE IT
TO AN APPROPRIATE LOCATION.
SO WITH THAT I'M GOING TO TURN
THIS OVER TO NICK TO TALK ABOUT
THE BEAUTIFUL BUILDING.
GOOD EVENING.
THANK YOU FOR HAVING US HERE
TODAY TO TALK ABOUT SOME OF THE
DESIGN FEATURES
OF THE HOTEL
PROPOSED HOTEL BUILDING.
I'M NICK MUNOZ WITH MYERS AND
ASSOCIATES.
THIS IS CHRIS MYERS, OUR
PRINCIPAL ARCHITECT AS WELL.
JUST LOOKING AT THE VIEW ON THE
SCREEN HERE WE'RE LOOKING
EASTWARD ON HERE ON THIS IS
KIND OF THE NORTHWEST CORNER
OF THE BUILDING.
WE HAD A VERY PRODUCTIVE
MEETING WITH THE DESIGN REVIEW
BOARD EARLIER IN THE YEAR AND
ADAPTED SOME OF THE
MODIFICATIONS THAT WERE
DISCUSSED IN THAT BUILDING TO
PROVIDE MORE KIND OF DYNAMIC
VISUAL INTEREST TO THE EXTERIOR
FACADE WITH SOME MATERIAL
CHANGES AND WRAPPING THE CORNER
WINDOW THERE ON NORTHWEST
CORNER AND ALSO PULLING THE
STREET SCAPE FACADE OUT TO HERE
ON STREET AND ALLOWING VIEWS
EXPANSIVE VIEWS REALLY INTO THE
SPACE TO SEE SOME OF THAT
LIVELY ACTIVITY.
SO YOU COULD SEE THIS A SIX
STOREY BUILDING GROUND FLOOR IS
LOBBY SPACE GUESTROOM AND SMALL
ROOFTOP PRIVATE LOUNGE ON THE
UPPER FLOOR.
HOW DO I ADVANCE HERE?
SO THANK SO LOOKING INTO SOME
OF THE STREETSCAPE MATERIAL
MATERIAL DETAILS UPPER LEFT YOU
HERE.
IT'S KIND OF THE CORNER LOOKING
MORE DOWNWARD ON HURON OR THE
UPPER LEFT VIEW IS ALSO LOOKING
RIGHT TOWARDS THE ENTRY.
SO WE WANTED TO POSITION THAT
ENTRY ON THE FIFTH STREET SIDE
SO THAT IT HAS A GOOD PROXIMITY
TO THE PARKING AREA AND THE
DROP OFF WHILE ALSO MAINTAINING
A PRESENCE AROUND THE CORNER ON
HURON STREET IN THE UPPER RIGHT
IMAGE YOU CAN SEE SOME OF THAT
MATERIAL DETAIL I'M TALKING
ABOUT WITH AN ACCENT COLOR AT
THE DEPTH THE WINDOWS.
SO WE FELT LIKE IT WAS A VERY
PRODUCTIVE DESIGN DISCUSSION
WITH THAT GROUP AND WE'RE VERY
HAPPY WITH THE BUILDING AS IS
MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL AFTER
THEIR REVIEW.
THESE ARE A FEW VIEWS OF THE
INTERIOR OF THE BUILDING SO
REALLY THE REASON TO KIND
OF INCORPORATE THESE INTO THIS
PRESENTATION IS JUST TO GET A
GET AN IDEA GIVE YOU A SENSE
OF WHAT YOU'RE LOOKING INTO
FROM THE OUTSIDE SO WE WANT TO
ENTICE PASSERS BY ON THE STREET
SCAPE WITH THE NICE VIEWS
OF THIS INTERIOR.
THE GUEST ROOM FLOOR PLANS ARE
PRETTY SIMPLE, STRAIGHTFORWARD
,GEARED MORE TOWARDS LET'S SAY
THE BUSINESS TRAVELER WITH KIND
OF JUST THE BATHROOM BEDS CHAIR
SMALL DESK TV AND SAY A MODERN
EUROPEAN STYLE THAT'S VERY
EFFICIENT AND BEAUTIFUL AT THE
SAME TIME ONE OF THE ONE OF THE
THINGS THAT WE WORKED ON WITH
THIS BUILDING IS TRYING TO
REALLY ENHANCE SOME OF THE
SUSTAINABLE FEATURES OF THE
BUILDING IN RESPONSE TO SOME
OF THE STRATEGIES OUTLINED IN
THE CITY STANDARDS.
SO ONE THING WE'RE DOING IS
PROVIDING ELECTRICAL ELECTRIC
HVAC TO THE GUEST ROOMS WHICH
IS ABOUT SEVENTY FIVE SEVENTY
PERCENT OF THE OFFICE OF THE
BUILDING THE ENERGY EFFICIENCY
WE'RE ADDRESSING WITH ENERGY
STAR APPLIANCE IS AND THERE'S
ALSO LED LIGHTING THROUGHOUT
THE BUILDING WITH A DAYLIGHT
KIND OF A DAYLIGHT CONTROL ZONE
OUT AT THE PERIMETER TO REALLY
MAXIMIZE SOME OF THOSE LARGE
WINDOWS AND REDUCE THE IMPACT
OF ELECTRIC LIGHTING.
SO WE'VE GOT ALSO LIGHTING
DEMAND CONTROL CENTRAL DEMAND
CONTROL SYSTEM THAT ADJUSTS THE
LIGHT LEVELS AUTOMATICALLY
THROUGHOUT THE DAY TO GO TO A
DAYTIME EVENING, NIGHTTIME
SETTING SO THAT IT DOESN'T
WASTE THE USE OF LIGHT STRATEGY
FIVE WE HAVE ADDRESSED WITH
SOME CONSTRUCTION WASTE
MANAGEMENT PLAN AND THEN
PERHAPS THE BIGGEST INITIATIVE
HERE IS THE INITIATIVE TO
PROVIDE SOME RENEWABLE ENERGY
WHICH WE'RE WHICH WE'RE DOING A
SOLAR PV ARRAY ON THE ROOFTOP
AND THAT'S IT.
SO THANK YOU AGAIN FOR ALLOWING
US TO PRESENT OUR PROJECT TO
YOU.
OUR GOAL HERE TONIGHT IS TO
RECEIVE APPROVAL OF OUR PLAN.
THANK YOU.
THAT'LL CONCLUDE THE PETITIONER
PRESENTATION STAFF MR. CHENG
THE PETITIONERS THE EXCELLENT
JOB OF PRESENTING TONIGHT IS
NOT A WHOLE LOT MORE I COULD
ADD OTHER THAN YES THE APPROVAL
IS SUBJECT TO GETTING A LICENSE
AGREEMENT APPROVED WITH SOLID
WASTE THAT IS ONGOING AS FAR AS
THE BACK AND FORTH TO TRY TO
GET THIS COMPLETED.
AND I DID MAKE MENTION OF THIS
REPORT ABOUT THE LANDSCAPE
MODIFICATION BUT AFTER FURTHER
CONSULTATION WITH THE CITY
FORESTER THIS IS MEETING THE
REQUIRED MINIMUM AMOUNT
OF STREET TREES AND WITH THE
INTERIOR PARKING LOT
LANDSCAPING SO ANYTHING WITH
LANDSCAPING IS BEING MET AT
THIS TIME.
GOT A THANK YOU WHEN MOVE ON A
PUBLIC HEARING.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK UP TO THREE
MINUTES ABOUT THE PROPOSED SITE
PLAN.
WE WILL FIRST CALL ON
INDIVIDUALS PRESENT TO ADDRESS
THE COMMISSION AND THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK DURING
THIS PUBLIC HEARING REMOTELY
PLEASE PRESS STAR OF LISTENING
BY PHONE OR USE THE PHRASE HAND
FEATURE IF YOU INTO THE WEBLINK
THE PHONE ACCESS PLEASE CALL
EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE
THREE FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN AND
ENTER MEETING ID NINE SEVEN
SEVEN SIX SIX THREE FOUR ONE
TWO TWO SIX.
CITY STAFF ALSO CALLERS THAT
HAVE RAISED THEIR HANDS USING
THE LAST THREE DAYS OF THE
PHONE NUMBER OR BY NAME
AVAILABLE YOU'LL HEAR AN
AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE
HOST IS ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK
AND WHEN SPEAKING PLEASE BE
CLEARLY A MUTE ANY BACKGROUND
NOISES FOR EITHER METHOD OR
PARTICIPATE?
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
IS THERE ANY ONE OF PRESENT
THAT WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT
THIS TIME PLEASE OUT PLEASE
COME UP TO THE PODIUM AND
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS.
THANK YOU.
OK.
OH HI.
DO I HAVE TO SAY MY FULL NAME
AND EVERYTHING IN AN ADDRESS.
OK I MEAN I'M FROM NEVADA AND
IT'S UNIVERSITY AVENUE HERE IN
ANN ARBOR AND I WAS JUST
WONDERING YOU MENTIONED THAT
YOU'RE PROVIDING NINE PARKING
SPACES AND THAT THE REST OF THE
ONE HUNDRED THIRTY NINE GUESTS
WOULD RELY ON CITY PARKING
THOSE KIND OF WONDERING IF
THERE WAS ANY FURTHER PLAN FOR
THAT.
SO GENERALLY IT'LL DISCUSSION
OH OK.
I'LL POCKET THAT FOR LATER OK
DO YOU HAVE ANY OTHER YOU HAVE
THREE MINUTES SO THAT'S OK.
THANK YOU EILEEN DO WE HAVE
ANYBODY ELSE PRESENT THAT WOULD
LIKE TO SPEAK TO THE COMMISSION
SEEING NO ONE I'M GOING TO GIVE
ANOTHER FIVE SECONDS SEEING NO
ONE ARE THERE ANY COMMENTERS
REMOTELY FUNNY.
NO ENDING IN ONE THREE FOUR YOU
HAVE PERMISSION TO ADDRESS THE
MISSION FOR THREE MINUTES.
THANK YOU KELLY.
THIS IS KEN YARBER.
TWENTY EIGHT COURT THE SAME
TEACHER WHO GIVING YOU THE
OPPORTUNITY TO SPEAK I'M SORRY
NOT TO BE THERE WITH YOU IN
PERSON TONIGHT BUT I DID ONE ON
ONE COMMENT ON THE
SUSTAINABILITY OF THIS HOTEL.
MR. MR. IT MENTIONED IN THE
GUEST ROOMS WILL BE ALL
ELECTRIC.
HOWEVER, THIS IS A LITTLE
MISLEADING.
I SUSPECT THIS WILL BE FROM AN
AIR CONDITIONER SAID THE WINDOW
YOU NEED TO SEE WHEN YOU GO TO
HOTEL AND YOU FORGET ABOUT IT
BUT THEY'RE EXTREMELY
INEFFICIENT.
THIS IS REALLY NOT A CLIMATE
FRIENDLY SOLUTION FOR A HOTEL
AND THIS IS NOT AN ALL
ELECTRICAL CON.
I'M AFRAID IT WILL BE EASY TO
GET IN CONTRADICTION VIOLATION
OF OUR EIGHT YEAR OLD PLAN AND
IF YOU THINK IT'S UNREASONABLE
TO ASK FOR AN ALL ELECTRIC
HOTEL WE ARE STARTING TO SEE
THEM POPPING UP AROUND THE
COUNTRY AND EVEN OCCASIONALLY
IN THE ROYAL HOTEL LIKE OH THAT
HOTEL MOTEL IN NEW HAVEN,
CONNECTICUT.
SO YES, I MEAN IT'S FRUSTRATING
RIGHT ACROSS THE CITY YOU'VE
GOT A COOKIE CUTTER HOTEL
HEATED WITH GAS THE BEDROOM
WITH PROBABLY A PEEK AT WHAT WE
REALLY NEED TO BE VERY CAREFUL
,MUCH MORE EFFICIENT EAT ALL
ELECTRIC ON THE ROOF CAN BUT
THIS IS SOMETHING BECOME
STANDARD IN BUILDING THE BEST I
COULD USE IN ERP SYSTEM ENERGY
RECOVERY , VENTILATION.
THERE'S SO MANY WAYS THIS
BUILDING IS EFFICIENT AND ALSO
OF WHAT WE REALLY NEED IN
TWENTY TWENTY THREE I MEAN TWO
MAJOR CRIME REPORT CAME OUT
TODAY SHOWING THAT REALLY THE
WORLD IS COMPLETELY FAILING TO
BRING DOWN ALL SO THOSE ARE MY
CONCERN AGAIN IF I WERE TO BE
DOING THIS REMOTELY I MISS AND
THANK YOU FOR ALL YOUR HARD
WORK AND
GOOD LUCK WITH THE
REST OF THE MEETING.
THANK YOU, MR. GARBER.
OUR NEXT ANDREIS IS ALEX LOWE.
YOU HAVE PERMISSION TO ADDRESS
THE COMMISSION FOR THREE
MINUTES.
HI, THIS IS ALEX LOWE CALLING
IN FROM SOUTH TO SET UP A GLAD
TO SEE A LOT OF THIS THE SEARCH
THERE SHOULD NOT BE AN ENORMOUS
PARKING LOT THERE LIKE THE
CURRENT IS.
BUT I WILL ALSO SAY THAT AT THE
PREVIOUS SPEAKER FALLS RIGHT IS
HE SAYS THAT THIS BUILDING
FALLS SHORT AND I MEAN IT IS A
VERY, VERY LITERAL SENSE.
SIX FLOORS IS EMBARRASSINGLY
SHORT LOCATION.
THIS SHOULD BE A TWENTY MAYBE
TWENTY FIVE YEAR OLD BUILDING
SIX SIX STOREYS IS NOT READY.
WE'RE NOT EVEN MEETING THE
REGULAR FAA LET ALONE THE FAA
WITH PREMIUM'S LET'S LET'S
FOCUS ON SEEING DENHA AND ASH
AND I NEVER WOULD GIVE IT THANK
YOU.
THANK YOU MR LO THERE ANOTHER
HANDS RAISED AT THIS TIME MR
CARE OK WITH THAT I WILL CLOSE
PUBLIC HEARING SO I'M GOING TO
READ THE PROPOSED MOTION WHICH
IS THE CITY AND OUR CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION HEREBY
RECOMMENDS THAT THIS IS FOR
APPROVAL CORRECT.
THIS ISN'T GOING TO CITY
COUNCIL.
I MEAN JUST MAKE SURE THAT'S
CLEAR OK THE PROPOSED CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION MOTION IS
THE ANN ARBOR CITY PLANNING
COMMISSION HEREBY APPROVES THE
THREE HUNDRED AND THREE TWELVE
TURON STREET SITE PLAN WITH THE
FOLLOWING CONDITION APPROVAL
OF SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT AND
SERVICE PLAN COMPATIBLE WITH
THE SITE PLAN AS PRESENTED
MOVED BY COMMISSIONER MILLS AND
COUNCIL MEMBER DESH.
WE ARE IN DISCUSSION.
WE'D LIKE TO KICK US OFF
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH
PAVANE AN
INTERESTING QUESTION WHICH IS
JUST COULD YOU SAY A LITTLE BIT
MORE ABOUT YOUR CONSTRUCTION
AND DEMOLITION PLAN?
TELL WAS REALLY FUNNY BECAUSE
OUR CONSTRUCTION GUY WAS LIKE
DO I NEED TO COME TONIGHT NOW
IT'LL BE FINE.
SO HE'S NOT HERE IF YOU WANT
TO.
WE'RE USING ONEIL CONSTRUCTION
LOCAL GENERAL CONTRACTOR.
I'VE BEEN HERE FOR 60 PLUS
YEARS AND KNOWS THE CITY VERY
WELL.
WHAT SPECIFICALLY ABOUT THE
CONSTRUCTION DEMOLITION?
IT'S A VACANT LOT RIGHT NOW SO
WE'RE GOING TO HOPEFULLY GET
STARTED SOMETIME NEXT SPRING
AND THEN LOOK TO BE OPEN BY THE
FALL OF TWENTY FIVE.
SO IS IT THAT YOU'RE PULLING UP
ASPELL FROM IT CORRECT.
YEAH YEAH THERE'S A GOOD
SECONDARY MARKET FOR THAT AND
O'NIEL IS WHO THEY ARE.
YEAH WE HAVE RECYCLING IN
CONSTRUCTION WASTE MANAGEMENT
PLAN BUT CERTAINLY HAPPY TO
PASS ALONG YOUR COMMENTS ABOUT
THE ASPHALT.
I'M JUST I'M JUST TRYING TO
FIGURE OUT BECAUSE I'M REALLY
INTERESTED IN WE'RE INTERESTED
IN ENCOURAGING THAT AND I WAS
DELIGHTED THAT YOU HAD A PLAN
FOR THAT AND WE'RE TRYING TO
FIGURE OUT HOW PEOPLE ARE DOING
IT IF YOU DON'T HAVE MUCH I WAS
I THOUGHT OH IT'S GREAT THEY
HAVE THAT BUT THEY'RE NOT
REALLY TAKING ANYTHING DOWN SO
THERE'S NOT MUCH OF VALUE
THERE.
I DON'T THINK SO ALTHOUGH IT IS
IMPORTANT TO TO DEAL
RESPONSIBLY WITH ASPHALT.
SO IF THERE'S ANYTHING YOUR
CONSTRUCTION GUY WANTS TO PASS
ALONG TO ME AS MORE DETAILS,
I'D LOVE TO SHARE IT WITH YOU.
SOLID WASTE PEOPLE OTHER THAN
THAT.
THANK YOU.
NEXT TIME I'LL TELL THEM I'M
SORRY AND I WILL REALLY QUICKLY
JUST FOLLOW UP ON THE
COMMENTER.
THANK YOU FOR SPEAKING BY THE
WAY AND I WILL FOLLOW PUT THE
QUESTION CAN WE HEAR A LITTLE
BIT ABOUT THE PARKING PLANS?
ONE HUNDRED THIRTY NINE
GUESTROOMS.
DO YOU HAVE A LICENSE AGREEMENT
WITH THE CITY PARKING STRUCTURE
ETC.?
NO, I MEAN I THINK THAT WE'RE
ALL PRETTY AWARE THAT THE
STRUCTURES ARE PRETTY
UNDERUTILIZED RIGHT NOW.
SO WHAT WE'VE SEEN IN THE PAST
IS THAT FOLKS HAVE USED A
COMBINATION OF ANY TIME PERMITS
NIGHTS AND WEEKENDS AND IT
WOULD REFLECT KIND OF WHAT WE
PERCEIVE TO BE THE GENERAL
MOVING HABITS OF THE GUESTS AT
THE HOTEL.
SO YOU WE HAVE ONE RIGHT NEXT
TO THE ACTUALLY FACILITY AND WE
USE THAT FAIRLY FREQUENTLY.
SO WE'RE WE'RE PRETTY WELL
VERSED WITH IT.
I WOULD SAY THE DIFFERENCE
WOULD BE IS MOST OF THOSE
GUESTS HERSELF PARKING RIGHT
NOW IN THIS LOCATION IS JUST
NOT IMMEDIATELY NEXT DOOR.
OUR PLAN IS TO RUN A VALET.
THANK YOU, COMMISSIONER
WETHERBEE.
SO ONE OF THE THINGS THAT WE
SEE WITH APARTMENT BUILDINGS
AND ALSO THIS HAS BEEN A
PROBLEM WITH THE GRADUATE ALSO
ON HERE.
CAN YOU SOMEONE DESCRIBE A
LITTLE BIT THE DROP OF VALET
DELIVERY SORT OF AREA AND HOW
THAT'S GOING TO WORK BECAUSE
ESPECIALLY IF THIS CHANGES HOW
TRAFFIC FUNCTIONS IN THE FUTURE
AND HOW DO WE NOT KILL
PEDESTRIANS AND BICYCLISTS AND
LITTLE THINGS LIKE THAT?
YEAH, THANK YOU FOR YOUR
QUESTION AND I'M LOOKING AT THE
WASTELAND THAT WAS PROVIDED TO
THE CITY FROM O'NIEL AND IT
DOES SPECIFICALLY TALK ABOUT
CONCRETE AND PAVING BEING
DIVERTED FROM THE TYPICAL WASTE
STREAM.
SO I'LL MENTION THAT WHILE I'M
HERE.
SO IF YOU WERE COMING TO THE
SITE AND YOU WERE IN A VEHICLE
YOU WOULD COME DOWN NORTH TO
SOUTH ON FIFTH AND YOU WOULD
TURN LEFT INTO OUR PARKING LOT
THROUGH A CURB CUT THERE YOU
WOULD DRIVE UNDERNEATH THE
BUILDING YOU PULL FORWARD AND
THEN ON THE DISPLAY IT'S
PROBABLY BETTER TO LOOK AT THE
PLAN HERE.
YOU WOULD PULL THROUGH THE
UNDER THE BUILDING THROUGH THE
SITE THERE WOULD BE A PAINTED
STRIPED OUT AREA THAT LOOKS
LIKE A ROUNDABOUT.
YOU'D PULL AROUND THAT WITH
YOUR CAR, COME AROUND AND
THERE'S A STAGING AREA FOR
THREE VEHICLES THAT SITS IN
FRONT OF ENTRY DOOR THAT EXIST
ON THAT FACE OF THE BUILDING.
SO YOU'D ENGAGE WITH THE VALET
AND THEY WOULD TAKE YOUR CAR
AND THEY COULD EITHER PULL IT
ONTO THE SITE INTO ONE OF THE
SPACES THAT ARE THERE OR WHAT'S
LIKELY GOING TO HAPPEN IS
THEY'RE GOING TO LEAVE AND GO
PARK IN A PUBLIC PARKING
STRUCTURE AND THEN COME BACK
AND THEN IF YOU WERE IN YOUR
ROOM AND YOU NEEDED YOUR CAR,
YOU CALL AHEAD AND THEY WOULD
RETRIEVE YOUR CAR AND THEY
COULD STAGE IT IN ONE OF THE
PARKING SPACES THAT EXISTS ON
THE SITE THERE.
IF YOU WERE COMING AS A
PEDESTRIAN, THE TWO MAIN TREES
ARE OFF OF FIFTH AVENUE AND
OBVIOUSLY IN THE PARKING LOT
AREA AND THEN OUR BIKE PARKING
IS LOCATED KIND OF IN THAT
COURTYARD AREA IF YOU WILL,
WHERE THE TURN OUT IS.
SO THERE'S BIKE WALKERS LOCATED
THERE AND THE BIKE COOPS ARE
LOCATED ALONG HERE ON ON FIFTH
STREET.
OK, AND WHAT ABOUT LIKE UBER
AND LYFT AND DELIVERY IS THEY
COULD USE THE DROP OFF POINT AS
WELL SO THEY COULD GO THROUGH I
THINK YOU I JUST WANTED TO ADD
ONE THING.
I'M CHRIS MYERS, ONE OF THE
ARCHITECTS ON THE SITE PLAYING
IN FRONT OF YOU.
YOU SEE THERE ARE SEVEN SMALL
SQUARES.
THOSE ARE COLUMNS THAT ARE
HOLDING UP THE UPPER PORTION
OF THE HOTEL.
SO ABOUT HALF OF THIS ENTRY
AREA INCLUDING THE THE THREE
CARS THAT ARE SHOWN IN THAT
DROP-OFF WAITING QUEUE, THE
HANDICAPPED ACCESSIBLE SPACES,
THE HANDICAP ROUTE ENTRY INTO
THE HOTEL WHICH IS RIGHT WHERE
THAT HAND IS ARE ALL TO THE
RIGHT OF HAND IS ALL UNDER
COVER .
AND SO WE HAVE SOME PROXIMITY
FOR A DROP OFF AND COVER RATHER
THAN AN ADDITIONAL PORT SHARE
TO THE HOTEL.
IT JUST ALLOWS THE BUILDING TO
CREATE THAT COVERAGE.
DROP-OFF SPACE.
THANK YOU COMMISSIONER MILLS.
IT WAS GOOD THAT YOU LET ME
BECAUSE I THINK THAT ANSWER MY
QUESTION WELL, MAYBE NOT
ACTUALLY NOW THAT I'M SEEING
THE THE SQUARES THAT YOU WERE
TALKING ABOUT, I WAS CURIOUS
WHAT WAS HAPPENING IN THE
SOUTHWEST CORNER OF THIS
PROPERTY OR DOES IT NOT
ACTUALLY IS IT NOT RECTANGULAR?
IS THERE LIKE A LITTLE CUT OFF?
WHAT IS THAT, SIR?
YEAH, IT IS PART OF THE
BUILDING.
IT'S THE STAIR TOWER.
OK, SO IF YOU WERE USING IT IF
YOU WERE IN THE BUILDING ON
THIS SIDE YOU COULD WALK THE
STEREOTYPE DOWN TO YOUR PARKING
AREA OR TO THE PEDESTRIAN
STREET.
OK, SO THAT IS ALL PART IT'S IT
LOOKS LIKE BUILDING CORRECT.
GREAT.
YOU ACTUALLY GO BACK TO THE
RENDERING.
YEAH OK SO THAT'S WHAT I'M
SEEING.
I'M SEEING THE SILHOUETTES LIKE
HERE BUT AGAIN OVER HERE IS
THAT SQUARE THAT'S THE DRIVER
GOT THAT'S THE DOOR AT THE
FRONT.
YEAH OK AND THAT HELPED THAT
ANSWERED A LOT.
THANK YOU BAND I KNOW THERE'S
LIKE WHAT THE PLAN IS I'M GOING
TO FOLLOW UP ON THIS QUESTION
BECAUSE THERE'S A LOT OF I
DON'T KNOW IF IT'S A DOUBLE
PARKING BECAUSE IT'S NOT
THERE'S NO PARKING ON HERE AND
IT'S JUST PEOPLE STOPPED WHEN
THEY SHOULD BE STOPPED.
I AM SUPER EXCITED ABOUT THERE
BEING LIFE ON THAT CORNER AND
THINGS TO LOOK AT AND I THINK
THAT THIS LOOKS LIKE THIS WILL
BE A GREAT ADDITION ESPECIALLY
SINCE THE BUILDING NEXT TO IT
HAS NO WINDOWS AND SO IT WILL
GIVE LIFE TO THAT BLOCK OUR ARE
THERE ENTRANCES ARE THERE DOORS
HERE WHERE PEOPLE MIGHT BE
TEMPTED TO STOP
ON THE
PARTICULARLY ON THE HURON
STREET SIDE?
SO THERE IS A DOOR ON HERE ON
THE STREET BUT IT'S RECESSED
AND THIS AREA HERE AND IT'S
ONLY SERVICE SO THE OTHER STAIR
TOWER SITS THERE.
OK, SO IT'S A DOOR WITHOUT A
WINDOW IT'S NOT INVITING RIGHT.
PEOPLE AREN'T GOING TO AND
PRESUMABLY IT'S GOING TO BE
MAYBE LOCKED FROM THE OUTSIDE
OR KEY ACCESS.
YEAH THAT DOOR AT THE EAST END
IS AN EXIT FROM THE STAIR
THAT'S AT THAT END OF THE
BUILDING AND JUST TO THE JUST
IMMEDIATELY WEST THAT IS IS THE
FITNESS ROOM IMMEDIATELY WEST
THAT IS THE MEETING ROOM.
SO WHERE THE PLAN STEPS INWARD
IS WHERE THE THE TRUE PUBLIC
PUBLIC PART OF THE HOTEL SITS.
SO YOU ARE KIND OF LOOKING INTO
THE MEETING ROOM AND THE
FITNESS ROOM BUT WE REALLY WANT
TO GET PEOPLE COMING INTO THE
BAR AROUND TO THAT MAIN ENTRY
VESTIBULE.
PERFECT.
I'M LESS I'M THINKING THE
PEOPLE WOULD BE MORE TEMPTED TO
DO THE DOUBLE PARKING ON HERE
ON THAN THEY WOULD ON JUST
BECAUSE IF YOU'VE ALREADY
TURNED TO GO SO THAT THAT GIVES
ME ACTUALLY A WHOLE LOT MORE
COMFORT THAT WE'RE NOT GOING TO
REPEAT THINGS OF THE PAST.
AND I LIKE THIS I LIKE THAT
IT'S TUCKED IN AND THAT YOU
HAVE NOT PROVIDED MORE PARKING
THAN YOU HAVE ONE OF MY INITIAL
QUESTIONS WAS THINKING ABOUT
CONNECTING TO THE PARKING LOT
TO THE SOUTH OF THERE WAS THAT
UNDER DISCUSSION?
ALL IT'S NOT AT THIS TIME.
I JUST THINK IT'S DISSIMILAR
USES AND COULD BE CONFUSING FOR
GUESTS COMING IN AND IT WAS
JUST EASIER FOR US TO KIND
OF KEEP IT SEPARATE.
SO I KNOW THE ONLY THING I WILL
ADD IS THAT WE HAD INITIAL
CONVERSATIONS ABOUT POTENTIALLY
A DROP OFF ON FIFTH AVENUE
OBVIOUSLY WITH IT BEING A ONE
WAY STREET, SOME OF THE KIND
OF AUTO METRICS AND OTHER
TRAFFIC STUDY ISSUES DIDN'T
ALLOW US TO DO SOMETHING LIKE
THAT.
OUR CONCERN WAS THE SAME WE
LIVE HERE RIGHT?
HAVING THE PEOPLE THAT ARE
JUTTED OUT INTO HERE ON THE YOU
HAVE TO DRIVE AROUND ALL THE
TIME IS NOT A GREAT SOLUTION.
AND SO I THINK ONE OF THE
THINGS THAT'S NOT ON THE TOPIC
HERE BUT AS POTENTIALLY THAT
STREET GOES TO TWO WAY, YOU
MIGHT SEE US BACK HERE WITH A
REVISION TO OUR SITE PLAN
ASKING TO POTENTIALLY PUT A
CURB CUT IN IF IT BECOMES AN
ISSUE JUST FROM A PUBLIC SAFETY
AND EVERYTHING ELSE
PERSPECTIVE.
BUT RIGHT NOW WE KNOW THAT'S
NOT AN OPTION WITH WITH IT
BEING A TWO WAY STREET AM A ONE
WAY STREET.
IF IT GOES A TWO WAY WE MIGHT
COME BACK AND REVISIT THAT IF
IT BECOMES AN ISSUE AGAIN,
WE'VE DESIGNED IT FOR IT TO
HOPEFULLY NOT TO BE BUT WE JUST
KNOW AGAIN WHAT HAPPENS ON HERE
ON IS NOT WE LIVE IN A CITY AND
PEOPLE HAVE BEHAVIORS LIKE THAT
AND SO JUST TRYING TO
POTENTIALLY ALLEVIATE THAT AT
SOME POINT IN TIME IF WE NEED
TO BUT HOPEFULLY THAT WON'T BE
AN ISSUE GREAT.
I WAS ALSO THINKING ABOUT
COOPERATION WITH THE NEIGHBORS,
WHICH IS MY FINAL THING THAT I
WAS GOING TO BRING UP THE SOLID
E CONDITION THAT WE HAVE TO GET
THAT SORTED.
I LIKE THE COLLABORATIVE
APPROACH.
IS IT DRIVEN BECAUSE
OF REQUIREMENTS OF OUR SOLID
WASTE TURNAROUND STUFF?
IS THAT CORRECT?
THAT'S WHAT'S DRIVING IT THAT
AND THE FACT THAT THIS SITE
DOESN'T HAVE A PUBLIC VALUE OFF
OF IT.
SO YOU KNOW, AGAIN, I THINK
THERE'S A LARGER CONVERSATION
NEEDS TO BE HAD ABOUT KIND
OF WASTE REMOVAL AND SOME
OF THESE SMALLER SITES THAT ARE
IN THE CENTRAL PART OF TOWN.
SO WE LOOKED AN EXHAUSTIVE
ARRAY OF POTENTIAL OPTIONS AND
AGAIN WE THINK THIS IS THE ONE
THAT WILL WE'RE INCENTIVIZED TO
WE WANT TO HAVE A FUNCTIONING
WASTE REMOVAL SYSTEM AND WE
DON'T WANT OUR FRONT DOOR TO
HOW MUCH TRASH ON IT.
SO YEAH, WE THINK IT'S IT WORKS
,YOU KNOW, FOR THE TIME BEING
AND IT'S A GOOD SOLUTION.
GREAT.
THANK YOU, COMMISSIONER LITCH.
HI THANKS.
I LISTEN TO YOUR PRESENTATION
AS I WAS MAKING MY WAY HERE.
SORRY TO BE A LITTLE BIT LATE.
COULD IS THERE RINDER WHERE YOU
SHOW YOUR BIKE PARKING AT ALL
OR WHERE THE BIKE IS ON THE
SITE PLAN AND I WONDER WHY YOU
CHOSE THE LOOP AS THE BIKE
ATTACH TO AS OPPOSED TO A LOOP
AND POST WHICH WOULD BE A
BETTER BIKE FACILITY BECAUSE
YOU COULD ALLOW FOR MORE BIKES
TO USE A SINGLE DEVICE AND I
SEE THAT TO EXCEED WHAT IS
REQUIRED.
BUT I WONDERED IF YOU
CONSIDERED DOUBLING SO GOING UP
FROM THE I GUESS IT'S FIVE OR
SIX TO MAYBE TEN OR TWELVE SO
THAT WAS LIKE THREE OR FOUR
QUESTIONS.
YEP.
SO THANK YOU FOR THE QUESTIONS
ABOUT PARKING.
WE WERE WORKING WITH THE D.A.
TO ADD BIKE PARKING TO THE AREA
HERE SO THERE'S THE LOOP THERE
TO THE AREA UP HERE AND THEN SO
THAT KIND OF COVERS THAT
SERVICE STORE BACK HERE KIND
OF COVERS THE ENTRY HERE IN THE
FRONT AND THEN WE HAVE OUR BIKE
LOCKERS THAT SIT HERE THE SIX
BIKE LOCKER SPACES THAT KIND
OF COVER THIS AREA AND WOULD BE
AVAILABLE FOR EVERYBODY THERE.
SO WE WE FELT LIKE YES, I
UNDERSTAND THE BIKE LOCKERS AND
THANKS FOR THOSE.
IT'S JUST WEATHER.
IS THIS A DAY REQUIREMENT THAT
YOU CANNOT PUT MORE IN ON THE
SITE SO WE'RE BALANCING I CAN'T
AS WE DIDN'T SPECIFICALLY COULD
WE PUT A BUNCH MORE BIKE LOOPS
THERE BUT WE DID TALK ABOUT HOW
THAT INTERACTED WITH PLANTERS
AND THE SPACING THAT THE LIGHTS
AND THE TREES AND THESE WERE
THE AREAS THAT SEEM TO FIT THAT
THE BEST FOR WHAT THE
REQUIREMENTS ARE AND IF THERE
IS A POSSIBILITY TO ADD MORE
INFRASTRUCTURE THAT BE
SOMETHING THAT I WOULD REQUEST
I WANTED TO PICK UP FROM THE
CALLER ALEX LOWE WHO ASKED
ABOUT THE HEIGHT OF THE
BUILDING STORIES WHY NOT 12?
WHY NOT 20?
WHY NOT TWENTY FIVE?
YOU'RE IN D ONE YOU'RE ONLY
LIMITED BY HEIGHT AT THIS
POINT.
YEAH.
SO WHEN WE STARTED THIS PROJECT
WAS BEFORE ANY OF THE
CONVERSATION THAT'S GOING ON
RIGHT NOW WITH RESPECT TO
ALLOWING OUR INCREASES AND SO
THIS SITE IS MAXIMIZED TO THE
AREA THAT WAS BY RIGHT BEFORE
PREMIUM'S AND ALLOWED FOR US TO
DO THE PROGRAMING WE LOOKED TO
TRY AND ACCOMPLISH WITH THIS
HOTEL.
IT'S ONE HUNDRED AND THIRTY
NINE KEYS BUILDING A THREE
HUNDRED ROOM HOTEL IN ANN ARBOR
JUST FROM A MARKET PERSPECTIVE
DOES IT MAKE SENSE?
AND SO IT SIMPLY WAS THAT THIS
IS THE PRODUCT WE WANTED TO
BRING TO THIS SITE AND IT THAT
WITH FIT WITHIN THE FOOTPRINT
OF WHAT WAS AVAILABLE TO US
BEFORE GETTING INTO THINGS LIKE
PREMIUM'S WHICH WOULD HAVE
ADDED CERTAINLY A LOT OF COSTS
AND IT WOULD HAVE BEEN FOR
SPACE THAT WE DON'T NEED TO
ACCOMPLISH WHAT WE WANT HERE.
SO THAT WOULD BE THE ANSWER I
WAS CONFUSED.
YOU SAID THAT THE MARKET
DOESN'T HAVE SPACE FOR A THREE
HUNDRED KEY HOTEL.
NO, IN ONE PARTICULAR BUILDING
WE WOULD HAVE THAT WOULD BE A
VERY TOUGH THING TO HAVE IN ANN
ARBOR AND BE SUCCESSFUL IN OUR
OPINION.
ONE SINGULAR BUILDING OF THREE
HUNDRED KEYS AGAIN I'M GOING TO
THINK YOU'VE SEEN THINGS HAVE
BEEN TALKED ABOUT IN THE
NEWS WHERE THEY'RE ADJACENT TO
CONFERENCE CENTERS AND
EVERYTHING ELSE BUT A STAND
ALONE FACILITY OF THREE HUNDRED
KEYS IS SOMETHING YOU'D SEE AND
A MUCH LARGER URBAN METRO THAN
ANN ARBOR.
OK, THAT'S INTERESTING BECAUSE
WE'RE HEARING INFORMATION THAT
WE'RE TWELVE HUNDRED ROOMS
SHORT IN ANN ARBOR AND SO THEN
TRYING TO SORT OF BALANCE THOSE
THINGS.
I UNDERSTAND THAT YOU'RE SAYING
IT DIDN'T WORK FOR YOU BUT I
DID WANT TO ASK THE QUESTION
FROM THE CALLER WHY NOT BUILD
SOMETHING BIGGER BECAUSE YOU
HAVE SORT OF THIS PERMANENT
BASE AND DOWN THE TOILET.
I MEAN WHERE DO YOU WANT TO GO
AS HIGH AS POSSIBLE BUT THEN
WE'RE GETTING DWARF BUILDING
HERE AND AGAIN, I MEAN WHEN YOU
SAY AS HIGH AS POSSIBLE, I MEAN
THAT WOULD HAVE ENTERED INTO
USING PREMIUMS AND OTHER THINGS
THAT AGAIN JUST DIDN'T MATCH
WITH OUR PROGRAMING.
SO I THINK THAT THAT WAS FOR US
THE CONSTRAINT WE ARE MAXING
OUT IF THEY ARE AND IF I RIGHT
AS THE ZONINGS CURRENTLY
WRITTEN.
OK, THANKS.
THANK YOU MR. HAMMERSCHMIDT.
THAT SAME QUESTION.
SO THANK YOU.
I WAS THINKING THAT THIS IS
BEFORE THE PREVIOUS DISCUSSION
AND I WAS GOING TO ASK IF ONCE
PREMIUMS ARE ELIMINATED IF YOU
WOULD ENTERTAIN GOING HIGHER
BUT I THINK YOUR ANSWER MAKES
SENSE ALSO I THINK WE'VE
APPROVED A COUPLE OTHER HOTELS
RECENTLY AND THEN THERE'S
ANOTHER INCOMING AND I WAS
WONDERING IF WE WERE GOING TO
OVERSATURATE.
SO I THINK I'M AT THIS HAVE A
FUN QUESTION AND THEN MAYBE A
HARDER QUESTION.
THE BAR AND LOUNGE I ASSUME
WILL BE OPEN TO THE PUBLIC.
YES.
LOVEGOOD HOTEL WELL THE MEETING
ROOM BE AVAILABLE TO THE PUBLIC
TO RESERVE THE GROUND FLOOR
MEETING ROOM WILL BE AWESOME.
WE'VE HEARD ABOUT
SUSTAINABILITY.
APPRECIATE THE ELECTRIC 70
PERCENT.
CAN YOU TALK A LITTLE BIT ABOUT
THE 30 PERCENT THAT IS RELYING
ON GAS AND WHAT EXACTLY THAT IS
AND IF THERE IS A WAY TO AVOID.
YES, I MEAN SO WHEN WE STARTED
THE PROJECT WE HAD AN INITIAL
CONVERSATION WITH DTT ABOUT ALL
ELECTRIC AND THIS WAS
HYPOTHETICAL AGAIN WE HADN'T
NECESSARILY LOOKED WHAT THE
IMPACTS WERE TO OUR PRO FORMA
IN COSTS AND EVERYTHING ELSE
BUT WE JUST HYPOTHETICALLY
SPEAKING, IS IT POSSIBLE TO DO
IT HERE?
AND THE MESSAGE WE GOT AT THE
TIME AND I'LL TELL YOU WE
STARTED THIS PROJECT BACK IN
TWENTY EIGHTEEN.
WE CHECKED IN ON THE
CONVERSATION I THINK POST COVID
WE WERE TOLD THAT THERE WAS NOT
NECESSARILY POTENTIALLY A POWER
IN THE CIRCUIT AND THAT THEY
WERE LOOKING AT DOING
IMPROVEMENTS BUT WHO KNOWS WHEN
THAT WAS GOING TO BE AVAILABLE
AND SO WE MADE THE DECISION
JUST BECAUSE WE THINK IT'S THE
RIGHT WAY.
WE KNOW THE CITY IS TRYING TO
PROMOTE THAT.
I WOULD SAY THE HOTEL WE DID
DOWN HERE ON STREET TEN YEARS
AGO IS ALMOST EIGHT PERCENT GAS
TO EVERY ROOM, EVERY PUBLIC
SPACE, EVERYTHING ELSE.
AND SO WHAT WE DID IS WE
DESIGNED THE BUILDING TO THE
BEST OF OUR ABILITY TO MATCH UP
THE CITY'S INTERESTS WITH WHAT
WAS COMMERCIALLY VIABLE.
AND SO THE 70 PERCENT IN THE
ROOMS THOSE ARE QUALITY
UNITS.
I MEAN THESE GUYS WOULD
PROBABLY TALK TO THEM BUT WE
SPOKE TO THE BEST FRIEDERICH
BECAUSE THEY HAVE TO HAVE LOW
EMISSION CONTROLS AND
EVERYTHING.
WE WORRIED ABOUT IT FREEZING IF
YOU WANT TO GET THAT LEVEL
OF DETAIL.
WE WENT DOWN THAT RABBIT HOLE
AND WE HAVE GOOD HIGH QUALITY
UNITS.
THEY'RE NOT THE YOU KNOW,
NOTHING AGAINST THE SIDE BY
SIDE OF THE ROAD FREEWAY WITH
THE THING THROUGH.
BUT THAT'S NOT WHAT WE'RE
PUTTING IN AND IT'S BETTER THAN
THAT THE REMAINDER OF THE
PROPERTY IT'S REALLY THE PUBLIC
SPACES HAVE BECOME CHALLENGING
FROM AN ELECTRIC SOLUTION.
IT'S EASIER TO DO OBVIOUSLY THE
ROOMS ARE SMALLER FACE TO
CONDITION.
RIGHT.
SO WE'RE TALKING ABOUT THE BAR
AREA, THE MEETING SPACES, THE
PUBLIC CORRIDORS.
BUT AGAIN THE A LARGE PART
OF THE SQUARE FOOTAGE AND THE
ACTUAL USE WILL BE ELECTRIC.
AND SO THAT'S KIND OF HOW WE
GOT THERE.
AND AGAIN WE THINK IT'S A GREAT
MOVE FORWARD FROM WHAT WE DID
TEN YEARS AGO.
I THINK WE'RE ALSO PROUD OF THE
FACT THAT I THINK WE'RE GOING
BE THE FIRST HOTEL WITH A PV
INSTALLATION ON THE ROOF.
SO I THINK THAT'S AND I THINK
THAT GIVEN THE AVAILABILITY AND
THE TECHNOLOGY THAT THIS IS
WHERE WE ARRIVED AND WE FEEL
PRETTY GOOD ABOUT SO THE PUBLIC
SPACES WILL HE DIDN'T COUPLED
WITH A GAS POWERED CORRECT
THING.
I SAID THIS A MONTH AGO AND I
GUESS I'LL SAY IT AGAIN THIS IS
NOT DIRECTED AT YOU.
IT'S REALLY FRUSTRATING THAT
WE'RE WE KEEP HEARING FROM
DEVELOPERS THAT WE TALK TO
ABOUT IT AND THEY WERE
CONCERNED AND THERE MIGHT NOT
BE ENOUGH POWER LIKE IT SOUNDED
LIKE YOU WOULD HAVE BEEN OPEN
TO EXPLORING THAT AND WERE
DISSUADED BY, YOU KNOW, THE
STATE OF OUR GRID AND THAT'S
JUST UNFORTUNATE AND THAT'S ALL
I'LL SAY YOU THANK COUNCIL
MEMBER THIS HAVING ASKED YOU
ABOUT TRASH, CAN I ASK YOU
ABOUT LAUNDRY NOW THAT THE
RECENT DISCUSSION OF IT SEEMS
LIKE I'M VERY STEEPED IN THE
DOMESTIC BUT THE RECENT
DISCUSSION OF THE ELECTRICITY
REMINDED ME THAT I THINK SOME
CONCERN HAD BEEN RAISED ABOUT
THE ABILITY TO DO THE VOLUME
OF WATER.
YEAH, EXACTLY.
AND I JUST WONDERED IF THAT IS
ANOTHER THING THAT'S ENTERING
INTO THE 30 PERCENT THAT CAN'T
BE DONE.
YEAH.
AND AGAIN I IN THE CALCULATION
WE DID AT THE TIME WITH OUR
ENGINEERING TEAM WAS THAT THE
AMOUNT OF POWER THAT WOULD BE
NEEDED TO RUN THOSE SYSTEMS
VERSUS BURNING NATURAL GAS ON
SITE AGAIN SOURCING THE POWER
FROM A GRID THAT IS BURNING
COAL AND NATURAL GAS THAT THE
IMPACTS AND THE ENERGY USAGE
WOULD BE HIGHER THAN BURNING
NATURAL GAS ON SITE.
SO THAT'S WHERE WE ENDED UP ON
.
I JUST WANTED TO GIVE YOU A
LITTLE MORE REASSURANCE.
WE'VE WORKED ON ABOUT 15 AC
HOTELS AND A NUMBER OF MARIOTTE
PRODUCTS AS WELL.
MARRIOTT HAS A VERY, VERY HIGH
INTEREST IN PROMOTING
SUSTAINABILITY AND STANDARDS
AND US AS A FIRM AND OUR
ENGINEERS AS WELL ALSO EQUALLY
SUPPORTED.
IT WAS MENTIONED ON THE CALL
THAT THESE ARE INEFFICIENT
PAETEC UNITS.
THEY ARE NOT IT'S MUCH MORE
ENERGY EFFICIENT, VERY HIGH
PERCENTAGE RATIO OF ENERGY
QUALITY IN THE GUESTROOMS AND
THEY ARE ONE HUNDRED ELECTRIC.
WHAT HAPPENS IN HOTELS LIKE
THIS IS THERE'S A HOT WATER
MANAGEMENT SYSTEM THAT ACTUALLY
USES WHAT'S CALLED AN ELECTRIC
MAINTAINER.
SO FOR EXAMPLE, THE HOTEL IS
NOT AT FULL OCCUPANCY.
IT DOESN'T HAVE A MASSIVE SURGE
OF EVERYONE TAKING A SHOWER AT
THE SAME TIME IT RUNS OFF OF A
MODERATOR WHICH IS AN ELECTRIC
UNIT THAT MAINTAINS TEMPERATURE
IN A TANK SYSTEM WITHIN THE
BUILDING AT THE MOMENT THAT YOU
HAVE ONE HUNDRED AND THIRTY
NINE SHOWERS RUNNING AT THE
SAME TIME THEY'RE TRYING TO
WASH SHEETS AND COOK SOMETHING
IN THE KITCHEN.
WHAT KICKS IN IS THE GAS SYSTEM
TO BOOST THE MECHANICAL
COMPONENTS SO THE 30 PERCENT IS
MAYBE A LITTLE MISLEADING
BECAUSE THAT'S AT PEAK USAGE
WHICH IS AT LIMITED TIMES IN
OPERATIONS.
SO THIS IS A VERY, VERY
EFFICIENT BUILDING.
NICK HAD ALSO MENTIONED YOU CAN
HAVE THE MOST EFFICIENT
ELECTRICAL SYSTEM BUT YOU CAN
HAVE A VERY INEFFICIENT
BUILDING ON PHELIM AND SO OR
THE BITTER REALITY OF THIS
BUILDING AND SO THIS IS A VERY
HIGHLY ELEVATED EXTERIOR WALL
ENVELOPE INSULATING VALUE,
RECYCLED CONTENT, A NUMBER
OF OTHER ELEMENTS THAT GO INTO
THE DESIGN OF THESE BUILDINGS
IN PLANTS, THE UTILIZATION
OF SOME OF THE MECHANICAL
SYSTEMS.
SO IF WE JUST FOCUS ON THE
MECHANICAL UNITS, WE'RE ONLY
LOOKING AT A PIECE OF THE THE
PICTURE.
I WILL ALSO MENTION THE THE
UTILIZATION OF PV ON THE ROOF
IS ALSO GOING TO TIE DIRECTLY
INTO THIS SYSTEM AND IT'S
PROMOTION OF SUSTAINABILITY.
SO HOPEFULLY WE'RE GIVING A
COMFORT THAT THIS IS A GOOD
HEALTHY BUILDING AND GOOD FOR
YOUR COMMUNITY.
THANK YOU.
DO WE HAVE ANY OTHER
COMMISSIONERS, ANY QUESTIONS,
COMMENTS?
ONE OF THE THINGS THAT I WANTED
TO MENTION THIS SITE USED TO BE
HAD A 20TH CENTURY AUTOMOBILE
REPAIR STATION AND THEN A
PARKING LOT.
SO FROM A UTILIZATION
STANDPOINT SEEING THIS MORE
INTO THE URBAN CORE RATHER THAN
THE DOWNTOWN PERIPHERY IS
REALLY, REALLY GREAT FROM THE
DESIGN REVIEW BOARD STANDARDS.
I THINK WHAT THIS WILL MASS
APPROPRIATELY WITH CITY HALL AS
WELL AS THE CITY CENTER
BUILDING THERE ABOUT FIVE, SIX
STORIES AS WELL.
SO I THINK DRIVING IN FROM HERE
ON IS GOING TO CREATE A LOT
OF VISUAL CONTRASTS AS WELL AS
CONTINUITY.
SO FROM THAT STANDPOINT I WAS
JUST LOOKING AT THIS WHAT CITY
HALL'S FACADE LOOKS LIKE IN
CONTRAST.
AND SO I THINK IT'LL CREATE A
GOOD LOOKING INTERSECTION FOR I
THINK STUDENTS OR STUDENTS.
YES.
OK, WELL WELCOME.
WE'RE BASICALLY LOOKING AT THIS
FROM THE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
CODE STANDARDS, RIGHT?
SO THE D1 D2 ZONES ARE DOWNTOWN
D ONE IS GOING TO BE THE
HIGHEST DENSITY ONE HUNDRED
EIGHTY FEET LIMITATION AS WELL
AS CURRENTLY FOUR HUNDRED
PERCENT FLORIDA AREA RATIO
WHICH IS WHY THE QUESTION THE
CITY COUNCIL RECENTLY HAD THE
FIRST HEARING WITH RESPECT TO
FAA AND REALLY ELIMINATING FARC
REQUIREMENTS SO THEY COULD GO
MUCH HIGHER UP AS HIGH AS
FIFTEEN STORIES.
SO LOOKING AT THIS THEY MATCH
THE FARC REQUIREMENTS AS WELL
AS HEIGHT SET BACK REGULATIONS
THAT ARE SET FORTH AND SO THAT
THAT'S WHAT WE'RE REALLY
LOOKING FOR.
WE DO HAVE A LITTLE BIT
OF LEGISLATIVE TENSION THAT
WE'VE TALKED ABOUT WITH
ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY
NOT NECESSARILY BEING CODIFIED
IN HERE.
SO WE TALK ABOUT IT BUT DO WE
NECESSARILY HAVE THE TEETH?
SO IT REALLY BEHOOVES CITIZENS
TO PUSH FOR THAT KIND OF CHANGE
.
AND SO JUST A NOTE THERE.
SO ASIDE FROM THAT, I MEAN THIS
PROJECT TO ME MEETS THE
STANDARDS OF THE UNIFIED
VELTMAN CODE AND CONTINGENT TO
THE CONDITIONS SET FORTH.
I WOULD RECOMMEND APPROVAL.
SO I THINK WITH THAT DO WE HAVE
ANY OTHER FINAL THOUGHTS FROM
COMMISSIONERS?
IF NOT, WE WILL GO TO A VOICE
ROLL CALL VOTE ON AND THE
MOTION IS PRESENTED CLEARLY.
YES, YEAR ABRAMS PRESS
SECRETARY YES.
SORRY YES.
MR. HAMMERSCHMIDT.
YES.
COUNCIL MEMBER.
COMMISSIONER MILLS.
YES.
YES COMMISSIONER.
COMMISSIONER MILLS.
WHETHER IT BE YES THE MOTION
YES COMMISSIONER.
CARRIES THANK YOU.
WHETHER IT BE YES THE MOTION
GOOD LUCK.
CARRIES THANK YOU.
GOOD LUCK WITH THE CONSTRUCTION
GOOD LUCK.
.
GOOD LUCK WITH THE CONSTRUCTION
WE ARE NOW MOVING ON TO SECTION
.
NINE B OF REGULAR BUSINESS AT
WE ARE NOW MOVING ON TO SECTION
THIS POINT IN TIME I WILL BE
NINE B OF REGULAR BUSINESS AT
RECUSING MYSELF FROM THIS
THIS POINT IN TIME I WILL BE
PARTICULAR DISCUSSION AS THIS
RECUSING MYSELF FROM THIS
PETITION INVOLVES MY EMPLOYER.
PARTICULAR DISCUSSION AS THIS
THANK YOU
.
HI.
SO THIS PETITION IS FOR TWENTY
EIGHT FORTY FIVE STATE A RIGHT
OF WAY RELEASE VACATION.
IT'S A REQUEST TO RELEASE OR
VACATE THREE AREAS OF RIGHT
AWAY RIGHTS AFFRONTING TWENTY
FORTY FIVE SOUTH STATE STREET
INCLUDING A 50 FOOT BY TWO
TWENTY NINE FOOT AREA AND A 50
FOOT BY 50 ONE FOOT AREA ALONG
SOUTH STATE STREET AND A TWENTY
SEVEN FOOT BY THREE HUNDRED
FOOT AREA ALONG THE EISENHOWER
PARKWAY.
THE STAFF RECOMMENDED IS TO
POSTPONE TO JANUARY 16TH TWENTY
TWENTY FOUR I BELIEVE THERE IS
NO PETITION OR PRESENTATION.
THAT'S CORRECT.
THANK YOU FOR THE INTRODUCTION.
THE REASON FOR THE POSTPONEMENT
IS THE CITY STAFF HAS BEEN
WORKING WITH THE PETITIONER TO
IDENTIFY SOME ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION THAT'S REQUIRING
SOME ADDITIONAL TIME TO
VALIDATE THAT.
WE WERE OBVIOUSLY HOPING TO GET
THAT INFORMATION PUT TOGETHER
PRIOR TO CONSIDERING THIS
AGENDA BUT ARE NOW RECOMMENDING
THE POSTPONEMENT TO JANUARY
16TH.
TWENTY TWENTY FOUR I WOULD NOTE
THAT THAT IS SPECULATIVE.
YOU HAVE NOT YET ADOPTED OR
TWENTY TWENTY FOUR CALENDAR BUT
WITH ANY LUCK WE'LL HIT THE
TARGET.
THANK YOU MR. LEONARD BECAUSE
THIS WAS NOTICED WE WILL STILL
HOLD A PUBLIC HEARING FOR THIS
ITEM SO THAT'S WHY IT REMAINS
AGENDA.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK FOR UP TO
THREE MINUTES ABOUT THE
PROPOSED ACOUSTICIAN FOR THAT
IS RELATED THESE VACATION I
WILL FIRST CALL IN INDIVIDUALS
PRESENT TO ADDRESS THE
COMMISSION AND REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK DURING
THE PUBLIC HEARING REMOTELY
STANADYNE OF LISTENING BY PHONE
OR USE THE HAND FEATURE IF YOU
INTO THE WEBLINK FOR PHONE
ACCESS CALL EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN
EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO FOUR
SEVEN AND ENTER A MEETING NINE
SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX THREE FOUR
ONE TWO TWO SIX CITY STAFF
SELECT CALLERS THAT HAVE RAISED
THEIR HAND USING THE LAST THREE
DIGITS OF YOUR PHONE NUMBER OR
BY NAME.
IF AVAILABLE YOU'LL HEAR AN
AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE
HOST IS ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK
WHEN SPEAKING PLEASE MOVE TO A
QUIET AREA AND MUTE TELEVISION
OR BACKGROUND SOUNDS FOR EITHER
METHOD OF PARTICIPATION.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT THAT
WOULD LIKE
TO SPEAK AT THIS
TIME?
SEE NO ONE IS THERE ANYBODY
THAT WOULD LIKE TO ADDRESS THE
COMMISSION REMOTELY?
THERE ARE NO HANDS RAISED.
ALL RIGHT.
WE WILL CLOSE THE PUBLIC
HEARING AND I'LL READ THE
PROPOSED MOTION KNOW I WON'T
READ THE PROPOSED MOTION.
I WILL ASK IF ANYBODY WANTS TO
MOVE TO POSTPONE TO A DATE
CERTAIN OF JANUARY DATE CERTAIN
BECAUSE WE HAVEN'T ADOPTED A
CALENDAR BUT IT WOULD BE DATES
MEETING AND POSTPONE TO A DATE
CERTAIN IF FOR SOME REASON THAT
DOESN'T HAPPEN WE WILL NOTICE
IT DOESN'T SAY ANY SENTENCE
NOTHING TO DATE CERTAIN
OF JANUARY 16 TWENTY TWENTY
FOUR MEET BY COMMISSIONER
HAMMERSCHMIDT SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER NILS.
CAN WE DO A VOICE VOTE ON THIS.
YES ALL IN FAVOR SAY I OPPOSED
THE MOTION CARRIES WE'LL PAUSE
FOR A MINUTE AND ALLOW
COMMISSIONER LEE TO REJOIN
MR.
FOX
ALL RIGHT.
COOL.
WELL WELCOME BACK TO MYSELF
WE'RE MOVING ON TO WHERE WE'RE
MOVING ON THE AGENDA A OTHER
BUSINESS THIS IS PROPOSED
PLANNING COMMISSION BYLAW
DATES.
AND WITH THAT WE WILL GO TO
STAFF PRESENTATION MR. LUNNER.
YEAH, I THINK THIS MIGHT HAVE
RECEIVED THE ITEM FOR THE MOST
POSTPONE ITEM EVER ON A
PLANNING COMMISSION AGENDA AND
MY PROPOSAL TO YOU THIS EVENING
IS TO END THAT PRACTICE.
THESE ARE A SERIES OF CHANGES
THAT WE'VE DISCUSSED FOR FOUR
CHANGES TO THE BYLAWS.
ONE CHANGE THAT HAS BEEN MADE
BY THE PLANNING COMMISSION
ORIGINALLY SUGGESTED A CHANGE
AND THEN A BASED ON FEEDBACK AT
A SUBSEQUENT MEETING REMOVE
THOSE CHANGES.
I WANT TO HIGHLIGHT THAT IS THE
AMENDMENT TO THE BYLAWS THAT
STILL WOULD REQUIRE A SIX
MEMBER VOTE.
OTHER THINGS WE ARE PROPOSING
SOME CHANGES TO REFLECT A
MINIMUM FIVE VOTE REQUIREMENT
TO AFFIRMATIVELY ACT ON ANY
PETITION AS YOU RECALL THAT
WOULD REQUIRE AS AN AMENDMENT
TO CHAPTER EIGHT WITH YOUR
APPROVAL OF THESE THESE WILL
ACCOMPANY THAT PROPOSED
AMENDMENT TO THE CITY COUNCIL
SO THAT AT THE TIME OF THE
SECOND READING AND IF THAT IS
ENACTED THESE BYLAWS COULD BE
CONSIDERED AT THAT SAME TIME.
HAPPY TO ANSWER ANY OTHER
QUESTIONS.
AGAIN, THE I THINK THE
SIGNIFICANT CHANGES TO THIS
WERE TRYING TO REFERENCE GENDER
NEUTRAL LANGUAGE, ADDING SOME
ADDITIONAL LANGUAGE FOR CITY
COUNCIL ROLE AND POTENTIALLY
APPOINTMENTS AND AS I SAID,
CHANGING THE STANDARDS FROM A
MINIMUM OF SIX AFFIRMATIVE
VOTES TO A MINIMUM OF FIVE
AFFIRMATIVE VOTES TO ENACT A
PETITION.
PERFECT.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
I'M GOING TO READ THE PROPOSED
MOTION WHICH IS THE ANN ARBOR
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION MOVES
TO RECOMMEND THE APPROVAL
OF THE BYLAWS.
IS THAT CORRECT?
BUT MR. THAT'S CORRECT.
OK, GOT IT.
AGAIN, I'M GOING TO READ THE
PROPOSED CITY PLANNING
COMMISSION MOTION WHICH IS THE
ANN ARBOR CITY PLANNING
COMMISSION MOVES TO RECOMMEND
APPROVAL OF THE BYLAWS AS
PRESENTED MOVE BY COMMISSIONER
WHITE AND SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER MILLS.
WE ARE IN DISCUSSION,
COMMISSIONER.
RIGHT.
JUST A QUICK QUESTION.
SO IF COUNCIL REJECTS OUR
PROPOSED CHANGES, DO WE START
THE PROCESS OVER OR DO OUR
BYLAWS REVERT TO THE LAST PAGE?
GOOD QUESTION.
ENACTING THESE CHANGES ALSO
REQUIRE CITY COUNCIL APPROVAL.
IF THEY DIDN'T ENACT THAT
ORDINANCE THEY WOULDN'T BE ABLE
TO ENACT THAT.
SO THEN WE WOULD THEN BRING
BACK AMENDED VERSION THAT YOU
WOULD HAVE TO RECOMMEND AND
THEN THAT WOULD PROGRESS TO BE
BACK TO THE CITY COUNCIL.
MAYBE WE'LL GET A FEW MORE
POSTPONEMENTS.
ANY OTHER COMMENTS, QUESTIONS,
DISCUSSIONS.
ALL RIGHT.
CAN YOU GIVE US FIVE MORE
SECONDS TO MAKE IT AWKWARD?
ANYBODY CAN SAY.
ALL RIGHT, WE WILL GO TO A
VOICE VOTE.
WITHOUT OBJECTION THE MOTION
PASSES ANY JUNCTION'S MOTION
CARRIES.
WELL, THANK YOU.
WE'RE MOVING ON TO JUNDAH TENBY
OTHER BUSINESS APPOINTMENT
OF THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
STEERING COMMITTEE AND THIS
AGAIN DISCUSSION OF THE
APPOINTMENTS OF THE STEERING
COMMITTEE GOING ON TO STAFF
PRESENTATION.
MR. LUNNER, THANK YOU AGAIN, AS
INDICATED, THIS IS THE PLANNING
COMMISSION'S APPOINTMENT OF A
STEERING COMMITTEE TO SUPPORT
AND ADVISE THE PLANNING
COMMISSION THROUGH THE
DEVELOPMENT OF THE CITY'S
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AS A
REMINDER TO SET THAT STAGE YOU
ARE THE AUTHOR OF THE PLANNING
THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN YOU
APPROVE IT, YOU DELIVER IT TO
THE CITY COUNCIL.
THEN THE CITY COUNCIL EITHER
APPROVES OR REJECTS THAT PLAN.
THE STEERING COMMITTEE IS
ENVISIONED AS PART OF OUR WORK
PLAN TO PROVIDE AN ADVISORY
GROUP TO YOU AS THE PLANNING
COMMISSION TO STAFF TO THE
CONSULTANT TEAM IN CARRYING OUT
THIS PROCESS.
THE INTENTION IS IS FOR THIS
GROUP TO MEET ON AN INTERIM
BASIS OVER THE COURSE OF THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN TO ADVISE
THE PROCESS TO PROVIDE FEEDBACK
THINGS SUCH AS ARE WE HEARING
AND PROCESSING FEEDBACK WE'RE
HEARING THROUGH OUR COMMUNITY
ENGAGEMENT IN THE COMMUNITY?
ARE WE PRIORITIZING RESPONSES
IN AN APPROPRIATE WAY?
IS THE DOCUMENT ITSELF ONCE WE
GET TO THAT END ACCESSIBLE AND
CLEARLY COMMUNICATES THE THINGS
THAT WE'RE TRYING TO
COMMUNICATE PROVIDES AN
ADDITIONAL SET OF VOICES TO YOU
AND ULTIMATELY STAFF THE TEAM
AND THE CITY COUNCIL TO MAKE
SURE THAT WE ARE INCORPORATING
WHITE VOICES AND BEING AS
SUCCESSFUL AS WE CAN IN
CREATING AND ULTIMATELY
ADOPTING THAT PLAN.
THESE NAMES WERE PRESENTED ARE
PRESENTED TO YOU THROUGH
LARGELY A PROCESS
OF APPLICATIONS.
WE OPENED UP AN ONLINE
APPLICATION ON SEPTEMBER 18TH
WAS CLOSE ON OCTOBER 16TH SO A
LITTLE BIT LESS THAN A MONTH
LONG APPLICATION WINDOW YOU
WILL RECALL THAT WE WERE PART
OF WE EXTENDED THAT PERIOD AT
ONE TIME.
I'M REALLY GRATEFUL FOR WE
ENDED UP WITH AN ADDITIONAL 40
APPLICANTS TO THAT PROCESS
WHICH GOT US UP TO OVER ONE
HUNDRED APPLICANTS.
I AM PRESENTING TO YOU A LIST
OF THAT STEERING COMMITTEE.
THEY ARE PRESENTED IN THE
MEMORANDUM.
THEY ARE REBECCA BARINGTON
NOLAN EARL CHITON RICHMAN,
VANESSA PUNO KARA ASSAULT'S
WENDY RAMSLAND GAGE WENDY AND
WOODS JACK CLAESSON JAZZ BRENIN
KASKY YASIIN TO HEAR MARC
SKIRBALL BEN COUNTERBATTERY
DUNDON JANE SANDY ALDRIDGE AND
THEN PLANNING COMMISSIONER
SECURA CLARK AND SARAH
HAMMERSCHMIDT THE WAY THAT I
PRESENT THESE NAMES TO YOU AS I
DID A REVIEW OF THESE
APPLICATIONS THAT YOU HEARD A
PUBLIC COMMENTER AND I HAVE
RECEIVED SOME EMAILS TO
EXPRESSING SIMILAR SIMILAR
FEEDBACK ON THIS PROCESS.
I'M REALLY GRATEFUL THAT
GENERAL, IT SEEMS LIKE THIS
LIST HAS BEEN REALLY WELL
RECEIVED.
I STARTED THAT REVIEW PROCESS,
STARTED LOOKING AT INDIVIDUALS
SPENT QUITE A LOT OF TIME THEN
LOOKING AT THE ENTIRETY OF THE
APPLICANT POOL AND TRYING TO
SPECIFICALLY IDENTIFY
DEMOGRAPHIC CHARACTERISTICS
THAT WERE EITHER NOT IDENTIFIED
IN THE INITIAL SORT OR INITIAL
ID.
I ALSO SHARED WITH YOU AND
AVAILABLE TO THE PUBLIC AS A
COMPARISON OF THE DEMOGRAPHICS
OF THESE APPOINTED MEMBERS
COMPARED TO THE CITY AT LARGE
COMPARED TO A SURVEY THAT OUR
PUBLIC SERVICES IS ACTUALLY
DONE OF OTHER FEEDBACK AND
SURVEYS THEY'VE RECEIVED FROM
SELF REPORTED DATA.
JUST TO GIVE YOU A SENSE OF HOW
THE STEERING COMMITTEE DOES OR
DOESN'T LINE UP WITH OUR
COMMUNITY FOR THE MEMBERS
OF THE PUBLIC IT TO BE CLEAR I
THINK I THINK IT DOES REPRESENT
A WIDE WIDE PERSPECTIVE IN OUR
COMMUNITY.
IT INCLUDES WELL INCLUDES
LARGELY CITY RESIDENTS.
IT ALSO INCLUDES THREE MEMBERS
WHO ARE NOT CITY RESIDENTS.
THIS IS SOMETHING THAT WAS
SPECIFICALLY IDENTIFIED BY THE
PLANNING COMMISSION AS PEOPLE
WHO MIGHT INTERACT WITH THE
CITY IN DIFFERENT WAYS.
MAYBE THEY WORK HERE, MAYBE
THEY HAVE OTHER CONNECTIONS
THROUGH SCHOOL OR CHURCH OR
JUST ASPIRE TO LIVE IN THE CITY
AND THEY MIGHT BRING A VOICE
ABOUT WHAT SOME OF THE BARRIERS
ARE TO BEING ABLE TO ACHIEVE
THAT BY WITH NUMEROUS
APPLICATIONS.
I WANT TO BE CLEAR THERE WERE A
LOT OF REALLY EXCELLENT I WAS
REALLY BLOWN AWAY BY THE JUST
THE EXPERTIZE THAT
OF APPLICANTS THAT WE RECEIVED
BY SOMEBODY NOT BEING INCLUDED
ON THIS I DID I RECEIVE SOME
QUESTIONS THAT PEOPLE FELT
QUALIFIED.
I JUST WANT TO BE CLEAR, YOU
KNOW, THERE WERE MANY QUALIFIED
PEOPLE AND SOMETHING THAT WAS
REFERENCED IN PUBLIC COMMENT
TODAY AND ALSO IN MY MEMORANDUM
I DID TRY MY BEST TO BRING WHAT
I WOULD IDENTIFY AS NEW VOICES
THAT I HAVEN'T SEEN AT THIS
TABLE OR AT THE CITY COUNCIL
TABLE.
THAT'S NOT ONE HUNDRED PERCENT.
THERE ARE SOME FAMILIAR FACES
FORMER MY PREDECESSORS HERE,
FORMER CITY COUNCIL MEMBER
PLANNING COMMISSIONERS HERE BUT
ALSO A LOT OF NEW NAMES, PEOPLE
WHO HAVE INTERACTED OR BEEN
INVOLVED IN OTHER CITY
COMMITTEES OR NOT BEEN INVOLVED
IN OTHER CITY GROUPS TO DATE.
SO I'M HAPPY TO ANSWER ANY
QUESTIONS.
MY ASK FOR YOU IS TO FORMALLY
APPOINT THIS GROUP SO THAT WE
CAN REACH OUT TO THEM, START
GETTING THEM SCHEDULED AND HAVE
THEM START FULFILLING THAT ROLE
.
THANK YOU.
ONE LAST THING.
SURE.
THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
SUBCOMMITTEE WAS ALSO REALLY
HELPFUL TO THIS PROCESS
.
THEY HELPED ME NOT ONLY CREATE
THE APPLICATION PROCESS BUT I
ALSO PRESENTED RECOMMENDATIONS
TO THEM.
YOU WILL NOTE THIS REVISED DOES
INCLUDE A COUPLE OF NAMES THAT
WERE ADDED SINCE THAT COMMITTEE
MEETING.
ONE OF THE THINGS IN THE
ORIGINAL VERSION OF THIS WE HAD
UNDER REPRESENTATION FROM WARDS
ONE AND TWO AND WE HAD NO
REPRESENTATION FROM PEOPLE WHO
IDENTIFIED AS ASIAN OR
ASIAN-AMERICAN.
SO I SPECIFICALLY ADDED THOSE
NAMES BOTH FROM APPLICATIONS
RECEIVED AND FROM OTHER
OUTREACH THAT I JUST CONDUCTED
INDEPENDENTLY.
SO BUT WITH WITH APART FROM
THOSE TWO CHANGES, THE
COMMITTEE DID ENDORSE THE
REMAINDER OF THOSE NAMES.
PERFECT.
THANK YOU, MR. LUTTER.
WITH THAT I'M GOING TO READ THE
PROPOSED MOTION WHICH IS WE
MOVE TO APPOINT THE FOLLOWING
INDIVIDUALS TO THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN STEERING
COMMITTEE.
THE LIST OF THE FOURTEEN PLUS
NAMES.
SO ALL RIGHT.
WITH THAT MOVED BY COMMISSIONER
MILLS AND SECONDED BY A COUNCIL
MEMBER DISH, WE'RE IN
DISCUSSION.
WOULD ANYONE LIKE TO KICK US
OFF
?
COMMISSIONER EVANS?
JUST A CLARIFICATION QUESTION
THE COMMENTS OF PLAN
SUBCOMMITTEE STILL EXIST.
A COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT
AND CLARK ON BOTH THOSE YES.
IN COMMITTEE AND THE
SUBCOMMITTEE.
YES.
AND AND OK, THAT'S COOL WITH
YOU.
OK, WHO ELSE IS ON THE
COMMITTEE WHO IS ON THIS
SUBCOMMITTEE?
COMMISSIONER SAUVé DISH AND
WHICH OK AND EVERYBODY WITH ME
AND MR. MILLS AND COMMISSIONER
WETHERBEE YOU THREE YOUR LEFT.
YES YES.
TO THE SUB SUBCOMMITTEE IS
HAMMERSCHMIDT CLARK WISCH SAUVé
DISH AND LEE.
THAT'S CORRECT SIX OF THE NINE
OK WE CAN ADD MORE IF YOU LIKE
ON NEXT I FEEL LEFT OUT THAT
WAS NOT THANK YOU SELIGSOHN.
THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER DISCUSSION POINTS
COMMENTS QUESTIONS ALL ALL
RIGHT WITH THAT THEN I WILL
MOVE IT TO A VOICE VOTE WITHOUT
OBJECTION THIS MOTION PASSES
ANY OBJECTIONS SEEING NONE THE
MOTION CARRIES THANK YOU.
ALL RIGHT.
WE'RE MOVING ON TO AGENDA ITEM
TEN.
THIS IS A CLOSED SESSION
REQUEST.
I'M GOING TO MOVE THIS TO STAFF
.
YES, THANK YOU.
THIS IS A REQUEST FOR THE
COMMISSION TO VOTE TO GO INTO
CLOSED SESSION TO RECEIVE
ATTORNEY CLIENT PRIVILEGE
COMMUNICATION THE BASIS FOR
THAT IS A EDUCATIONAL SESSION
WITH THE CITY ATTORNEY AND
PLANNING COMMISSION PROCEDURES
.
OK, THE PROPOSED MOTION AS I
MOVE TO GO INTO CLOSED SESSION
UNDER THE MICHIGAN OPEN
MEETINGS ACT FOR THE PURPOSE
OF DISCUSSING ATTORNEY CLIENT
PRIVILEGE COMMUNICATION SET
FORTH IN MCLAY FIFTEEN POINT
TWO SIX EIGHT SUBSECTION H MOVE
BY COUNCIL MEMBER DESCH AND
THEN SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER
MILLS' DISCUSSION YOU MR.
LUNNER I JUST DO WANT TO ADD
THAT WE WILL AS PER PROCEDURE
WE WILL COME BACK TO THE
REGULAR MEETING AFTER SESSION
BUT FOR BOTH THE COMMISSION
MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC I DON'T
ANTICIPATE ANY ACTION AFTER
AFTER THAT BUT WE WILL PROGRESS
TO THE LAST PUBLIC COMMENT.
GOT IT.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
ANY OTHER DISCUSSION POINTS IF
NOT, WE'LL DO A VOICE VOTE
WITHOUT OBJECTION THIS MOTION
PASSES ANY OBJECTIONS SEEING
NONE?
OH, I'M NOT POSITIVE BUT I
WOULD PREFER A ROLL CALL FOR
CLOSED SESSION JUST FOR
DOCUMENTATION.
MY APOLOGIES.
THANK YOU FOR THE
CLARIFICATION.
WE'LL GO TO VOICE IF YOU
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT.
YES, THAT'S RIGHT.
YES, YES.
CERTAINLY YES.
MR. MILLS.
YES.
COUNTERMELODIES DISH.
YES COMMISSIONER SAUVé.
YES SURE.
WETHERBEE YES.
THANK YOU.
I COMMISSIONERS WILL BE HEADING
UP TO A CONFERENCE ROOM ON THE
THIRD FLOOR.
WE WILL ESCORT YOU SO YOU CAN
BE TRUSTED THROUGH OUR SECURE
ELEVATORS.
HOW MANY GUYS
PENCE TO SPEAK
DURING THE PUBLIC HEARING
RALEIGH PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE
VLESSING BY PHONE OR USE A
RAISED HAND FEATURE A VIEWING
THROUGH THE WEBLINK PHONE
ACCESS PLEASE CALL EIGHT SEVEN
SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO
FOUR SEVEN AND ENTER MEETING ID
NINE SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX THREE
FOUR ONE TWO TWO SIX CITY STAFF
ALSO THE CALLERS THAT HAVE
RAISED THEIR HAND USING THE
LAST THREE DAYS OF THE PHONE
NUMBER OR NAME IF AVAILABLE
YOU'LL HEAR AN AUTOMATED
ANNOUNCEMENT ALLOWING THAT THE
HOST IS ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK
WHEN SPEAKING PLEASE MOVE TO
THE QUIET AREA SO THAT WE CAN
HEAR YOU CLEARLY FOR EITHER
METHOD OF PARTICIPATION OR
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT THAT
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK SEEING NO
ONE?
IS THERE ANYONE THAT WOULD LIKE
TO ADDRESS THE COMMISSION
REMOTELY?
THERE ARE NO HANDS RAISED
FOSTER CARE.
THANK YOU.
LET'S JUST GIVE IT TWO SECONDS.
ALL RIGHT.
WE'LL CLOSE PUBLIC COMMENT.
MOVING ON TO AGENDA NUMBER
ALL RIGHT.
TWELVE COMMISSION PROPOSED
MOVING ON TO AGENDA NUMBER
BUSINESS IS THERE ANY
TWELVE COMMISSION PROPOSED
COMMISSION PROPOSED BUSINESS
GREAT.
WITH THAT I WILL MOVE TO ITEM
NUMBER THIRTEEN ADJOURNMENT
MOVED BY COMMISSIONER WISCH.
I INVITE COMMISSIONER ABRAM'S
ALL THOSE IN FAVOR SAY AY AY WE
ARE ADJOURNED I AT THE